# Library Overview
## Question 1: What is the selected library
I selected the library Pillow which is a fork of the PIL.
## Question 2: What does the library do
The Python Imaging Library adds image processing capabilities to your Python interpreter. This library provides extensive file format support, an efficient internal representation, and fairly powerful image processing capabilities. The core image library is designed for fast access to data stored in a few basic pixel formats. It should provide a solid foundation for a general image processing tool[1].

The purpose of this module is to help Python users with dealing with images and giving them a wide variety of ways to manipulate and improve their programs and images. The first step of every Pillow program is importing the correct packages, to do the simple functions all you need to do is import _Image_ but as we are also drawing and picking fonts in my sample program I also import _ImageDraw_ as well as _ImageFont_. As long as the imports are intact you should have no trouble calling all of the built-in functions that this module provides. Depending on what you are looking for, a variable must be created to have the functionlity. When opening a file you must use _Image.open(Name of image)_ and calling Image creates an Image object that can be used and can call Image functionalities on it. In my sample program I also create an _ImageDraw.draw(image object)_ as well as a _ImageFont.truetype(font,size)_ which are other imports with drawing and font usability. I will cover some of the built-in functions of Image I did not get to cover or would have been an overwhelming amount of extra work. Firstly, you can convert your images into thumbnails using the simple function _image.thumbnail(size)_ and it will create a thumbnail which would be useful for any kind of content creation and I think that is such a cool function. Another function which could be useful for any kind of content creation is the ability to blur an image using _image.filter(ImageFilter.BLUR)_. You can also use a function _.convert_ that is super useful for switching the colour modes of the image youre working with, you can be in RGB mode which I am always in buy you can also switch to black and white as well as some other colour option, again enhancing the usersd ability to fully customize their images.
## Question 3: Functionalities
The functionalities of this module are very user friendly, I am not the hugest fan of Python but I found it quite intuitive and it all sort of fell into place. I will go into further detail about some of the other functions I used in my program. I found resize to be extremely useful becuase the odds the two images I wasa trying to merge were the same size and fit perfectly were very low and the first try of merging them they did not fit nicely at all. After resizing them to the same size it was perfect. Below is resizing the image and the code, note it is intentionally stretched to demonstrate it worked.
## Add image
The next two functions are all about orentation and can do much the same thing. The first function is _image.rotate(degree of rotation)_ that rotates the image to the degree you provide, I rotated it 90 degrees and here is the car and the piece of code:
## insert image
A very similar function is _image.transpose(command)_ with the options being FLIP_TOP_BOTTOM which flips it on a vertical axis versus the horizontal axis which is FLIP_LEFT_RIGHT. In the case of my example I used the vertical rotaion and below is the image flipped upside down.
All of the photos above are JPEGs that were saved into my working folder using the save function I created that uses the built-in save to make sure the edited images are easily accesible. The write function I talked about earlier makes me able to write on the images a created but it has many more stipulations and parameters. The colour must be in RGB format and the font needs to be specific.
## Add images
Lastly, as we do in a lot of file I/O programs we must close all the images to make sure no memory errors and it is good coding practice to be accustomed too.
## Question 4: When was it created?
According to the author, Alex Clark, Pillow was official on March 4th, 2013. That was the day the Python Software Foundation funded the work of Alex, he had been working on it since 2010 because he was tired of third party packaging[2][3]. According to the official Pillow documentation there have been 52 releases ranging from the first published version of 2.7.0 to the current version of 10.1.0 and are released 4 times a year[4].
## ## Question 5: Why did I choose this?
I recently made a black friday purchase, I bought a monitor that can be rotated all around and have been using it vertically to code. You are most likely wondering what the heck this has to do with Pillow but since its orientation is vertical it has completely warped the wallpaper and I could not find a single app on Windows to resize the image to fit the monitor. The timing of this worked perfectly with researching the topic for my exploration activity and I saw the use for Pillow right away. I chose it to potentially resize my wallpaper and to dig deeper into the capabilities of image processing. The first test I undertook was resizing my wallpaper until realizing there was nothing to do as its being extended from my laptop and I would rather have a horizontal laptop wallpaper and a warped moniitor then vice versa.
## Question 6: Library influence of learning
The main takeaway from my time working on this was the use of the try-catch blocks, I took 1083 online and we used them but I do not believe I fully internalized them and while reading the documentation it was strongly suggesting the use of error catching. I just realized how useful it actually is and how I should implement it in other aspects of my coding. The other thing I began to realize was just how vast Python was, I should have realized after I explored other students first exploration activity but there is so much that can be done with the one language.
## Question 7: Overall experience
I do not overall enjoy working in Python which may sound a little crazy as most people love it but its just not my favourite. But there was no shot I was doing Racket and as I previously explained I landed on Pillow and overall even with my opinion of Python I enjoyed working on this. I liked that I was able to work with some of my favourite cars and just explore the module. I also found the testing process fresh and new and even a tad fun. Instead of output to the terminal I was getting images and seeing all the different functions being used on my image was a great learning experience. I strongly suggest this package to anyone who wants to do image processing and is fairly comfortable with Python.
