# ExplorationActivity2
## Question 1: What library
For the second exploration activity, I chose a library called Pillow, a fork of the Python Imaging Library (PIL). Pillow is the front-runner for digital image processing in the Python programming language and was created by Jeffrey A. Clark.
## Question 2: How to run
The first step in running Pillow is to ensure that either Pillow is already downloaded or to install it. To check if Pillow is indeed downloaded on your machine (as is the case with the ITC lab computers), you can run a simple command: _pip show pillow_. In the case that you need to install it, run the command: _pip install pillow_ and you will be good to go. Once installed it is like any other Python program that you would run through the terminal.
## Question 3: Purpose
As mentioned above Pillow is a fork of PIL BUT PIL has not been updated since 2011 and is discontinued. That is where Pillow comes in, it provides strong image processing and its tools are used for all facets of imaging. My program demonstrates the key functions of the library, I took two images of porsches and began to test the functions of the library. As there is a part of the Library Overview that requires me to go in depth with parts of the code I will explain some functions and dig deeper into them in the overview. Every part of my code I made functions with try-catch blocks to guarantee any errors with the images were contained. Firstly, and most commonly used is the function _Image.open()_ which is utilized to open any of the file formats that Pillow supports, which are: BMP, PNG, JPEG, and TIFF. I then began to test the ability of the image manipulation provided by Pillow which give you the ability to resize, rotate, flip and even merge the images that have been previously opened. All of these functions are valuable in image edting and other aspects of preprocessing. Another function that I demonstrate in my program is the ability to write/draw on the image, this is very useful when it comes to relaying information with the use of images and annotations. Some other functions of the library is the saving function where all images we have previously improved and edited we can save as any of the supported file types and can be saved to our personal folder where we can then implement them in our work. To finalize the purpose of this I combined most of the functions I created into a JPEG that wonders what Porsche model you would pick using resize, open, merge, and writing functions as well as a built in function that runs like _ImageName_.show() and pops up a PNG of the image.
##Insert Image here
## Question 4: Sample Input/Output
